TapeRipper - A GUI program for dead simple tape-to-CD transfers.

David Andrzejewski
david.andrzej@gmail.com


DESCRIPTION

Of course it is possible for a user to convert an audio tape to CD
using Audacity and CD burning software.  There are commercial
solutions as well (e.g., Nero).  This program is aimed at the user who
does not wish to be bothered with the details of such a procedure.
Therefore the overriding design principle is user interface
simplicity.  The goal is for converting an audio tape to CD to involve
connecting the tape player to the computer, a few mouse clicks,
walking away for 50 minutes, then coming back and doing a few more
mouse clicks.

One tricky issue is that the raw audio feed from the tape will include
intro / outro silence, as well as track breaks for music CDs.  In
order to try to handle these automagically, the program employs some
very rudimentary signal processing tricks.  In particular, music
track segmentation (for the creation of CDs which contain multiple
tracks and can be navigated by skipping songs) is done with a simple
hand-crafted Hidden Markov Model (I don't know how Nero does
this...maybe something similar).


USAGE

Voice recording mode: resulting CD will have a single track
(cannot navigate by skipping individual songs)

Music recording mode: program will attempt to automatically 
find track breaks to create a CD with multiple tracks

Steps:
1) Connect tape player to mic input and put blank CD in drive
2) Press the RECORD button
3) Press play on your cassette tape player
4) When tape is done, press STOP
5) When tracks are done processing, press BURN

If any problems are encountered, simply QUIT and start over

To test mic and tape player volume levels
-RECORD some of your tape as described above
-Hit PLAY to listen to the recording (use to test quality/volume/etc)


REQUIREMENTS

-Tkinter (GUI, should be included with Python)
-tkSnack (mic input, http://www.speech.kth.se/snack/)
-NumPy (fast calculation for track/gap segmentation)
-cdrecord (CD burning, http://smithii.com/cdrtools)


KNOWN BUGS / MISSING FEATURES

-Windows: if recorded audio gets too large, Tcl/Tk may crash with an
'unable to alloc %d bytes' on Windows

-Functionality for handling double-sided tapes is commented out.  The
extra memory usage seemed especially likely to trigger the Tcl/Tk
memory error.


LICENSE

This software is open-source, released under the terms of the GNU
General Public License version 3, or any later version of the GPL (see
LICENSE.txt).


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

In addition to being beautiful and amazing, Cho Andrzejewski provided
invaluable guidance on user interface and overall design issues.

This program was developed as part of a Christmas present for my
mother-in-law.

Early implementations of this program used HMM code from Michael
Hamilton (hamiltom@cs.colostate.edu).


VERSION HISTORY

0.1     Initial release
